docs(lockup-contract): refactored README for better clarity (#144)
near/core-contracts: lockup/README.md

# Lockup / Vesting contract

## Overview

> This contract acts as an escrow that locks and holds an owner's tokens for a lockup period.

Reviewer: Let's add a link to https://docs.near.org/docs/tokens/lockup somewhere

The contract consists of lockup and vesting processes that go simultaneously.

A lockup period starts from the specified timestamp (or, if not specified, from the moment when transfers are enabled by voting) and lasts for the specified duration.
Tokens will be unlocked linearly.

Vesting is an additional mechanism. It also locks the tokens, and it allows to configure 2 more options:
1. Ability to terminate tokens vesting and refund non-vested tokens back.
2. Cliff vesting period.

Once transfers are enabled, all tokens are unlocked, everything is vested, and the termination process is ended (if applicable), the owner can add a full access key to the account.
This will allow the owner to turn this contract account into a regular account, claim the remaining tokens, and remove the contract or delete the account.

### Lockup schedule

Lockup is a mechanism of linear unlocking of tokens that could not be terminated.
It is described by the following fields:

> - `lockup_timestamp` - The moment when the tokens become unlock (start of the contract).

Author: Sorry for the confusing phrasing.
Took your version except example in p.1. The idea of the timestamp (as I see it) is that we can forget about Mainnet launch, so I don't think this example is relevant right now.

- `lockup_duration` - Alternative way to set the moment when the tokens become unlock.

>   The duration from the moment the transfers are enabled (`1602614338293769340`) to the start of the contract.

Reviewer 2: `TransferEnabled` timestamp can also be passed directly, so it might be different.

- `release_duration` - Length of the contract. `finish_timestamp = lockup_timestamp + release_duration`

### Vesting schedule

The contract can contain a vesting schedule and serve as a vesting agreement between the Contract Creator and an employee (owner of the contract).

Contract Creator is either the NEAR Foundation, or it could be a third-party account.
It is set at the moment of initializing the contract by the `foundation_account_id` field (naming could be confusing).
It's also possible to leave this field blank, which means that the vesting process could not be terminated.

A vesting schedule is described by three timestamps in nanoseconds:
- `start_timestamp` - When the vesting starts. E.g. the start date of employment.
- `cliff_timestamp` - When the first part of lockup tokens becomes vested.
  The remaining tokens will vest continuously until they are fully vested.
  Assume we have a 4-year contract with a 1-year cliff.
  In the first year, nothing is vested, then 25% is vested, then we have linear vesting till the end of the contract.
- `end_timestamp` -  When the vesting ends.

> Once the `cliff_timestamp` passed, the tokens are vested on a pro-rata basis from the `start_timestamp` to the `end_timestamp`.

Author: Are you sure that example above is not enough? (5 lines before)
Don't want to overload the doc.

We also have many examples [here](https://github.com/telezhnaya/docs/blob/master/docs/tokens/lockup_vesting_details.md), it will be merged into [our doc](https://docs.near.org/docs/tokens/lockup), I think we don't need additional example here.

- `start_timestamp` - When the vesting starts. E.g. the start date of employment.
- `cliff_timestamp` - When the first part of lockup tokens becomes vested.
 The remaining tokens will vest continuously until they are fully vested.
 Example: a 1 year of employment at which moment the 1/4 of tokens become vested.
  The remaining tokens will vest continuously until they are fully vested.
  Assume we have a 4-year contract with a 1-year cliff.
  In the first year, nothing is vested, then 25% is vested, then we have linear vesting till the end of the contract.
- `end_timestamp` -  When the vesting ends.

In addition to the lockup period that starts from the moment the transfers are enabled, vesting schedule also locks
all tokens until `cliff_timestamp`.
Once the `cliff_timestamp` passed, the tokens are vested on a pro rata basis from the `start_timestamp` to the `end_timestamp`.
Once the `cliff_timestamp` passed, the tokens are vested on a pro-rata basis from the `start_timestamp` to the `end_timestamp`.

### Release schedule
### Combining lockup and vesting

The release of tokens can also be scheduled to be linear from the moment tokens are unlocked.

> The tokens are unlocked at the following timestamp `max(transfers_enabled_timestamp + lockup_duration, lockup_timestamp)`.

Reviewer 2: Why this is removed? If both `lockup_duration` and `lockup_timestamp` is present, then we still should use the maximum of two. So with `cliff_timestamp`, we have:
```
max(max(transfers_enabled_timestamp + lockup_duration, lockup_timestamp), cliff_timestamp)
```

> The tokens are started to unlock at the following timestamp `max(max(transfers_enabled_timestamp + lockup_duration, lockup_timestamp), cliff_timestamp)`.

Author: They work separately, but the resulting schedule is affected by both these processes.

> The contract could also have only one of these mechanisms. When initializing, it's possible to pass empty vesting information.

Author: `vesting_schedule` is optional field https://github.com/telezhnaya/core-contracts/blob/master/lockup/src/lib.rs#L188
just pass `None`

> Does it mean that we only have lockup mechanics?

Yes

> If neither of the mechanisms is initialized, the tokens will be locked forever.

Author: Great catch, thank you! Rewriting this

> The staking pool contract and the account have to be approved and whitelisted by the NEAR Foundation, to prevent lockup tokens from being lost, locked, or stolen.

Reviewer 3: > It looks so. @evgenykuzyakov please confirm

Waiting for confirmation from @telezhnaya  or @evgenykuzyakov 

> I am not sure but it looks like it's not possible to pass the address of the whitelisting contract

It would be good if we could figure it out from the contract code. If whitelisting contract is hardcoded, then it would be good to have a link to the code where it is defined.

> The staking pool contract and the account have to be approved and whitelisted by the NEAR Foundation, to prevent lockup tokens from being lost, locked, or stolen.

Reviewer 2: > The staking pool contract and the account have to be approved and whitelisted by the NEAR Foundation, to prevent lockup tokens from being lost, locked, or stolen.

This is guaranteed by the whitelist contract account ID. It doesn't have to be chosen by NEAR Foundation, but if reused for other lockups, the guarantee stands.

This question is completely independent from the `foundation_account_id` meaning.
The `foundation_account_id` can be renamed to `terminator_account_id`, because the only function of this account is to be able to terminate vesting schedule.

> Once the staking pool holds tokens, the owner of the staking pool can use them to vote on the network governance issues, such as enabling transfers.

Reviewer 3: Is it hardcoded in the contract? Could we please link the place from the source code in the documentation?

> Once the staking pool holds tokens, the owner of the staking pool can use them to vote on the network governance issues, such as enabling transfers.

Reviewer 2: I think this part is obsolete and should be deprecated. Since the voting for transfers has already passed there is no reason for the new lockup contracts to be initialized without explicitly enabled transfers with the fixed timestamp.

The account_id that was checking and counting votes is not hardcoded, but a part of the enum:
https://github.com/near/core-contracts/blob/d84f7a924b79009d3f7aa4e577c07b08a0489dc9/lockup/src/types.rs#L62

I think we shouldn't use this anymore and should explicitly mark it as deprecated in the code.

> Once the staking pool holds tokens, the owner of the staking pool can use them to vote on the network governance issues, such as enabling transfers.

Author: I created a separate issue about marking as deprecated/fixing comment in the contract: https://github.com/near/core-contracts/issues/146
Please comment there anything that you remember that should be fixed

So the owner needs to pick the staking pool that fits the best.

### Early Vesting Termination

> In the case of vesting schedule, the contract supports the ability for the Contract Creator to terminate vesting at any point before it completes.

Reviewer: I believe the confusion here is that "Contract Creator" is ambiguous since on mainnet it is lockup-factory which creates and deploys the contract. My suggestion would be to rename it to "foundation" (without "NEAR" and lowercase) implying any foundation which might be interested in founding lockup contracts and thus become the entity ensuring the trust to terminate vesting early. Our error messages in the contract return messages like:

> "Foundation account should be added for vesting schedule"

> "Foundation account can't be added without vesting schedule"

> "Can only be called by NEAR Foundation"

(the last one is unfortunately too specific)

If the vesting is terminated before the cliff all tokens are refunded to the Contract Creator. Otherwise, the remaining unvested tokens are refunded.

> In the event of termination, the vesting stops, and the remaining unvested tokens are locked until they are withdrawn by the Contract Creator.

Author: I can change it but I try to be not too wordy. I think that my wording gives the same amount of information, doesn't it?

During termination, the owner can't issue any action towards the staking pool or issue transfers.

> If the amount of tokens on the contract account is less than the remaining unvested balance, the Contract Creator will try to unstake and withdraw everything from the staking pool.

Author: It is possible if tokens are on the staking pool

Once the tokens are withdrawn from the staking pool, the Contract Creator will proceed with withdrawing the unvested balance from the contract.
Once the unvested balance is withdrawn completely, the contract returns to the regular state, and the owner can stake and transfer again.

The amount withdrawn in the event of termination by Contract Creator may be lower than the initial contract amount.
It's because the contract has to maintain the minimum required balance to cover storage of the contract code and contract state.
The amount of NEAR tokens locked to maintain the minimum storage balance is `35` NEAR.
`35` NEAR is enough to cover storage for `350000` bytes on Mainnet at the price of `1` NEAR per `10000` bytes.

> If there is still a termination balance deficit due to the minimum required balance, the owner may decide to fund the deficit on this account to finish the termination process.

Reviewer 3: This sounds like an important mechanism that everyone should be aware of. Is it possible to pre-fund all lockup contracts upon creation with 35 extra NEAR to avoid having this situation upon termination?

Author: https://github.com/near/core-contracts/issues/145

This can be done through a regular transfer action from an account with a liquid balance.

### Private vesting schedule

> Since the vesting schedule usually starts at the date of employment it allows to de-anonymize the owner of the lockup contract.

Reviewer 3: To clarify, this contract will be used not just for the employees.

# Lockup / Vesting contract

## Overview

This contract acts as an escrow that locks and holds an owner's tokens for a lockup period.
The contract consists of lockup and vesting processes that go simultaneously.

> High-level overview could be found [in Near Docs](https://docs.near.org/docs/tokens/lockup).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A high-level overview could be found [in NEAR documentation](https://docs.near.org/docs/tokens/lockup).
```

A lockup period starts from the specified timestamp (or, if not specified, from the moment when [transfers were enabled by voting](https://near.org/blog/near-mainnet-phase-2-unrestricted-decentralized/) on 2020-10-13, 18:38:58 UTC or `1602614338293769340` nanoseconds unix time) and lasts for the specified duration.
Tokens will be unlocked linearly.

Vesting is an additional mechanism. It also locks the tokens, and it allows to configure 2 more options:
1. Ability to terminate tokens vesting and refund non-vested tokens back.
2. Cliff vesting period.

The owner can add a full access key to the account if all conditions are met:

> - Transfers are enabled;

Reviewer: This way it is much easier to comprehend :+1: 

I suggest providing more context whenever possible, so here we can provide the links to the initial voting plan and clarify that is already done:

```suggestion
- [Transfers are enabled](https://near.org/blog/near-mainnet-is-now-community-operated/) ([Phase II launch on MainNet enabled transfers](https://near.org/blog/near-mainnet-phase-2-unrestricted-decentralized/));
```

# Lockup / Vesting contract

## Overview

This contract acts as an escrow that locks and holds an owner's tokens for a lockup period. 

> The contract contains of lockup and vesting processes that go simultaneously.

Reviewer 4: "contains of" is not correct English grammar. You might have meant "consists of"

A lockup period starts from the specified timestamp (or, if not specified, from moment when transfers are enabled by voting) 

> and lasts for the specified duration.

Reviewer 4: As suggested by @matklad, we start to use one sentence per line https://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoc-recommended-practices/#one-sentence-per-line

Reviewer 5: @bowenwang1996 do we have some style.md somewhere where we could dump this info? A-la https://github.com/rust-analyzer/rust-analyzer/blob/d4a51241ceedae25f15bb8d202493554ae0af810/docs/dev/style.md#documentation ?

> It's also possible to lock tokens until the absolute timestamp. In this case the tokens will be available after the

Reviewer: > It's also possible to lock tokens until the absolute timestamp.

I don't believe that is true.

Author: I think it's true, you could set `lockup_timestamp` to desired absolute timestamp and set `release_duration` to 0.
But it looks like this sentence adds nothing to the meaning, it could be deleted not to confuse anyone

lockup period or after the timestamp, whichever is later.

Vesting is an additional mechanism. It also locks the tokens, and it allows to configure 2 more options:

> 1. Ability of terminating the contract from the Foundation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Ability to terminate tokens vesting and refund non-vested tokens back.
```

> 2. Cliff: the period when all tokens remain locked. After the cliff, there is a linear unlock till the end of the contract.

Reviewer: Maybe something like this:

```suggestion
2. Cliff vesting period. All tokens remain non-vested before the cliff checkpoint is reached; on the cliff checkpoint, the accumulated tokens are vested in bulk; after the cliff, tokens are linearly unlocked till the vesting reaches its end timestamp.
```

or, just:

```suggestion
2. Cliff vesting period.
```

(the details are provided below)

Once transfers are enabled, all tokens are unlocked, everything is vested, and termination process is ended (if applicable), 
the owner can add a full access key to the account. 
This will allow the owner to turn this contract account into a regular account, claim the remaining tokens, and remove the contract
or delete the account.

### Lockup schedule

Lockup is a mechanism of linear unlocking of tokens that could not be terminated.
It is described by following fields:
- `lockup_timestamp` - The moment when the tokens become to unlock (start of the contract).
- `lockup_duration` - Alternative way to set the moment when the tokens become to unlock. 
  The duration from the moment the transfers are enabled (`1602614338293769340`) to start of the contract.
- `release_duration` - Length of the contract. `finish_timestamp = lockup_timestamp + release_duration`

### Vesting schedule

The contract can contain a vesting schedule and serve as a vesting agreement between the Foundation and an employee (owner of contract).

> Foundation is either the NEAR Foundation, or it could be third-party account. 

Reviewer 4: if so, is `foundation` still the best name?

Reviewer: @telezhnaya `foundation_account_id` is an unfortunate internal naming, but we still can use better wording on the documentation level and reference the internal naming explicitly pointing out where it comes from.

 The remaining tokens will vest continuously until they are fully vested.
  Assume we have 4-year contract with 1-year cliff.
  First year nothing is vested, then 25% is vested, then we have linear vesting till the end of the contract.
- `end_timestamp` -  When the vesting ends.

Once the `cliff_timestamp` passed, the tokens are vested on a pro rata basis from the `start_timestamp` to the `end_timestamp`.

### Combining lockup and vesting

The contract could have both lockup and vesting schedules.

The tokens are started to unlock at the following timestamp `max(lockup_timestamp, cliff_timestamp)`.
NOTE: If the `lockup_timestamp` is not specified, the tokens are unlocked at `transfers_enabled_timestamp + lockup_duration`.

Current amount of locked tokens are calculated as the maximum between lockup and vesting logic.
If at least one mechanism said the tokens are locked, then they are still locked.

The contract could also have only one of these mechanisms. When initializing, it's possible to pass empty vesting information. 
It's also possible not to provide `release_duration`, it means that we are using vesting schedule.

> If both mechanisms are not initialized, the tokens will be locked forever.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If neither of the mechanisms is initialized, the tokens will be locked forever.
```
